#### Exercises

1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

Making coffee;
ADD water to the coffee pot
PLACE a new coffee filter
ADD coffee grinds to the filter
PUT coffee pot to the machine
START the coffee machine

Washing dishes;
PUT dirty dishes in the sink
ADD dish soap to a sponge
WHILE dirty dishes
  SCRUB with sponge
  RINSE with water
  SET in drying rack
END WHILE

Getting Unstuck on Bloc checkpoints;
FUNCTION gettingUnstuck(time)
  IF time < 30 mins THEN
    SEARCH Google and Stack Overflow
  IF ELSE time > 30mins AND time < 5 hours THEN
    ASK for help in Slack
  ELSE
    ASK for help during your weekly mentor session
  END IF
END FUNCTION

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

A)
UPS: By applying telematics and algorithms, UPS saves its drivers 85 million miles a year, resulting in annual savings of $2.55 billion.

Tesla: Applied A.I. to develop self-driving cars in the consumer market. It feeds hundreds of thousands of miles of driving videos and data and uses algorithms to break them down to understand and create a massive vocabulary around driving.

Netflix: Applied Machine Learning to improve its movie recommendations. It uses an algorithm based on what you have watched in the past and the shows with good ratings.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

A) An algorithm's efficiency depends on two key resources, time and space. The faster the algorithm, the quicker it finishes its task, the more efficient it is with respect to time. The less memory it uses, the more efficient it is with respect to space.

